Last week, you gained a significant
advantage over analysts who don't know how
to interact with databases.
You gained the ability to locate and
describe all the data in a database and
how to export the data for analysis.
This week, we are going to take
your skills to the next level.
You are going to learn how to summarize
values across entire columns, and
break those summaries up
according to values and columns.
We're also going to learn how to combine
information from multiple tables.
What you learn to do this week will
form the foundation of everything you do
as a data analyst, because these
are the query tools that will allow you
to manipulate your data
into whatever categories or
segments you're interested in.
For those of you who took
the Tableau course prior to this,
you'll basically be learning how
to use SQL to implement the same
calculations you implement when you drag
variables onto the columns and row cells.
There are many ways to summarize data.
Some of most common methods
are to count the number or
observations, add together all the values
in a set of rows, take the average of all
the values in a set or rows, or
report the maximum value of a set of rows.
Each of this summary methods
aggregate your data in some fashion.
And parallel with that,
the terms count, sum, average, and
max are all called
aggregation functions in SQL.
Aggregation functions themselves
are very intuitive to understand,
because we're used to making
those types of calculations.
This week, you will practice one of
the slightly more challenging use cases of
aggregation functions,
which is when you have to combine columns
that have to be aggregated
in different ways.
One of the reasons this use case can be
challenging is because you have to be
remember to use the appropriate
aggregation function for
every column you want to
include in your output.
For example, imagine that you
run a specialty camera store and
you are interested in how many sales
each of your employee make, and
how satisfied customers are with
each of your employee's service.
The data you have to address these
questions when the appropriate tables
are combined has one column for employee
name, one column for every sale made, and
one column for
the satisfaction rating customers gave at
the end of every sale an employee made.
To aggregate the data in these
columns according to employee,
you have to separate all the rows
associated with the given employee,
and then summarize the values in each
of the other columns in some fashion.
To do that in SQL Query, you have to tell
the database exactly what columns of
data you're interested in from exactly
what table or tables using the select and
from clauses you learned last week.
Then, in addition, you have to
tell the database how to break up
the rows by employee using
a group bias statement.
The important thing to remember is that
you have to explicitly tell the database
how to summarize the rows of each
of the columns separately, and
you have to use the correct
aggregation function for each column.
Here, for example, we want to count or
sum all the values in the sales column for
each employee, but we want to average all
the values in the customer rating column.
We have to enter this function separately,
and in the appropriate place.
Remember that doing an analysis
using an SQL, or Tableau for
that matter, is a little different
than doing analysis in Excel,
because all of your SQL results are
exported as a table, not a worksheet, and
therefor they have to
fit into a table format.
Practically, that means every row
in your table has to use the same
aggregation level.
It's not always intuitive how to do that,
especially when you want to divide your
results up according to different groups.
To get a feeling for this, imagine you are
still interested in your employees' sale
numbers and customer satisfaction ratings,
but now you also want to know if and
how the gender of your employees
relates to those performance measures.
Your data have the same columns as before,
but now also have a gender column.
When you group your rows
by employee number,
you can still count the number of
entries in the sales column, and
average the customer ratings
in the ratings column, but
what would you do to summarize the gender
information in the gender column so
that there is only one
gender value per employee?
There is no appropriate aggregation
function for this, given that female and
male are words, not numbers.
Any query that tries to use an aggregation
function other than count on
this column would crash
in most database systems.
But the count function won't
help you address your question,
because you don't want a count
of the number of rows,
you want to know whether
the employee was male or female.
You'll know some of the ways you can
redesign your queries to handle these
types of situations by
the end of this week, and
we'll learn a couple more
strategies next week as well.
I warn you that especially if you're used
to analyzing all your data in Excel,
it can take a little while to get used
to the strategies you have to use.
I'll also mention that MySQL handles these
mis-matched aggregation levels a little
differently than other database systems, a
phenomenon that comes with its own set of
issues that you will learn more about in
this week's MySQL dognition exercises.
Right after you learn how to break
your data summaries up into groups,
next important thing you will learn
this week is how to combine tables.
Combining tables is the essence of what
makes relational databases useful and
once you know how to do it, it unlocks
all kinds of analysis possibilities.
I'm very excited to help you take
your SQL skills to the next level.
Enjoy the exercises and I'll check
in with you with some extra advice
after you've had a chance to practice
writing aggregation functions.
Then you'll see me again later in the week
when I give you little more background
about how joints work.